Hey guys welcome back to the course.
Here we go again talking about creating content for whoever is it.
Well one of those reasons or an idea for is to get people to join in and participate in some way.
That's what we call engagement.
And it can take the form of many different things likes comments replies shares what our engagement
is meaningful because it's that next level beyond just reading or watching something.
It's how people show their support or voice their opinion on what you've created.
And this is where engagement is important for you.
Your business and your product that feedback can demonstrate popularity to others.
It can also help create buzz and with more people reacting to your content.
More people actually end up seeing your content which is basically free marketing.
So that's how we increase exposure and take your content marketing from something that only gets you
10 customers to something that could easily get you 500 if done correctly.
The other point is that much of this can be done for free.
Yes for free.
It costs nothing for you to post content on social media platforms or blogs.
The tricky thing is getting people to react to it and people react to your content with a like or with
an up.
They're basically giving it value getting comments shows that people are paying attention and want more
information on the topic.
So the more reactions your content gets the more likely it will be read by others.
Why.
Because post with 100 Likes For example are going to see more legitimate than a post with zero likes
this kind of social proof can go a long way towards influencing others to check it out.
And you know who agrees with this.
Google agrees with this.
The more engagement you get the better your value.
Yes it's true.
Google is crazy.
Google on the other search engines all just came as no other search engines want to deliver results
with a more human like perspective to them.
So showing links to content that have a lot of engagement and comments and shares makes more sense.
So better engagement helps your content again get found more easily.
So how can you accomplish these engagement goals through your content.
Well here are four strategies that will get you started.
One way to get lots of engagement is to offer free stuff.
I'm talking about free stuff in addition to the free information or content you're already posting.
It could be a download or a giveaway contest of some kind something with clear value.
If you're a design agency or a consultant you probably have enough experience to create a short ebook
or an online guide about best practices for the types of clients you've worked with.
Making that information available for free shows offer your expertise and it's the type of resource
that often gets shared.
Want to see some examples.
OK well go to Twitter and search for free design guide or great design guide and you'll see what types
of guides.
People are sharing.
If you have another idea for a free download.
Checking out Twitter is one way to see if other people are doing the same thing and maybe give you ideas
on how to do it a little bit better now.
The way a giveaway works is your or the site owner and you offer some of your unlimited money to your
readers.
I'm actually kidding but keep in mind here you have to give something away repeatedly over the long
term if you're actually giving away real items that can actually get pretty expensive.
But guess what.
If you have say like a sace to an online subscription tool that's subscription and therefore costs you
nothing to add more users.
Well then you can give away free months of your plan because it's basically free money for you.
Now you don't have to say at the top of every single post for free.
I saw one blog actually do it quite well at the very end of their post.
They said something like two best comments get this prize.
Now the comments you can believe were pretty great.
They were long they were well-thought out and they have lots of sub threads and replies going on.
Another way to get engagement especially comments is to simply ask a question at the end of whatever
you're posting.
Read a post where you present two sides of a debate or two ways to accomplish the same thing.
Uber versus lift which is cheaper and which corrodes the soul faster.
Versus Squarespace which is better for building web sites.
Take aside and give your take on why one is better than the other.
Write up your findings.
Make a recommendation and then invite people to give their opinion.
Now you don't necessarily have to write the entire post or on the idea of getting a response.
You can literally just post a rhetorical question at the end of the post like what do you think or would
you do the same thing the person in my story did.
Or do you know anyone who fits this description him.
It doesn't matter.
Just think it through a little bit trying to think of this as just a one way street where you solicit
comments and they help you spread your posts.
If people comment you could actually get a lot of interesting and useful information from them.
You can incorporate that back into the post to make it better or use some of the reactions or ideas
to plan your next post.
Now this brings me to an important side note about engagement.
The comments you get from are a great way to better understand who is following who they might support
certain things you say disagree with others or have new ideas of their own that they want to share.
But each comment helps you understand what they want.
A little more helping you create new posts in the future that should be more effective.
OK the next strategy to get more engagement is to give it a great title.
In fact if you don't have a good title people might not even read your post.
Content can be found on social media feeds and search results and your decision to click the link usually
comes down to whether the title looks interesting or not.
So here are some tips for creating a great title.
Number one generally speaking try to keep it between 8 and 12 words long.
I don't know why but data has shown that titles that are in that range get the most shares part of the
reason is that the title actually will completely show up on your mobile device screens.
A lot of people write these really long titles don't realize why no one is clicking on it.
Well because on your phone you can't read the whole thing.
Tip number two is ask a question in the title appeal to certain needs by calling them out you do something
like new to iOS 10 free apps to get you started.
Just don't make the whole title your question because then the reader has less of an idea of what they'll
get when they read it.
To always be clear with your title what your content is about.
You can try putting a question at the beginning or the end of it doesn't really matter.
Tip number three is dial up the drama.
Rewording your titles with bigger more dramatic or unusual adjectives can get more attention.
By all means keep the title accurate but inject some personality into it.
For example maybe you've got a post called 13 startup success stories.
Well that's pretty dull and almost fell asleep reading it off.
Why are those stories so meaningful to you.
What can the reader learn from them remix that title up a bit.
Try.
Start of success 13 inspiring companies with lessons you can use or I don't know about how 13 startups
achieve success and you can too whatever it's more dramatic trying to think of something good.
Well here's a fun tool you can try.
It's called the link pait title generator and yes I know it's a little bit weird.
Now there are a few of these online but just check it out.
So let's say you have some type of like let's say you're a food delivery app you've made and you want
ideas for posts you can write type in food delivery into this link bait generator and hit the button
then and bam you've got dozens of ideas for titles.
Now are some of them crazy.
Yeah absolutely.
Are they a bit formulaic.
Well.
But the idea here is to just give you ideas they'll create better titles.
You don't need to be as slimy or B.T. as these but it does give you an idea of just other ways of angling
it or are different words that are more unusual that you can use.
Just don't use it to create misleading titles.
Be interesting don't be vague.
Now here is our fourth strategy for getting engagement and your post linked to or mentioned people in
your post.
People love to be mentioned or recognized in other people's content so you can bet they'll share your
content especially if they are referenced in a positive way.
Now that we have covered a bunch of ways to get engagement I want to focus specifically on sharing.
Now sharing is a form of engagement but it's different from liking or commenting.
Here's why.
Research tells us that there's actually very little correlation between what we share and what we read.
I know a lot that actually sink in with you.
Well so why is it that sharing is still important then if two people sharing and ever reading it well
because it helps expand your reach and to drive more traffic to your site.
You want more people see your content because a larger audience should help you sell more things get
more clients or whatever you're trying to do.
So even if they don't read it people sharing your stuff leads to actual people reading it.
So it helps to ask though why do people share things.
Well we might be dipping a bit into pop psychology here but there are some reasonable assumptions that
you can make.
Now here are five common reasons that are worth Alli's chewing on about why people share things.
Number one people share content to help out the person who made it.
Your followers may want to support you.
So yes you can ask people you know to share the stuff you create.
It's a great way to start.
Number two people also share stuff because they know someone will appreciate it.
They might be connected to a marketer who would appreciate a post about a new CEO tool they might know
a family with kids who have autism that would definitely want to know about a new scholarship for kids
with special needs.
In a sense your followers want to be helpful to someone else so they share the content.
The third reason worth chewing on is.
People also share stuff to confirm an opinion they have.
If someone believes in a cause or has taken a side on an issue sharing content about it reinforces that
stance and it kind of establishes their public identity.
It could be a political post about a law being passed or a bad review of a they already think will suck.
The content confirms what they believe so they want others to know about it.
People love sharing their opinions for better for worse.
The fourth reason people share is that people also share content as a reflection of who they are or
who they want to be.
It's aspirational.
All of us have probably seen it.
Friends suddenly share a post about weight loss or a healthy recipe or a workout.
Sometimes it's to show off those post-workout abs.
Yeah that's great.
Good for you.
But other times it's a make a statement.
I want to lose weight or I want to eat healthier or I want to be healthier.
Now you might see people sharing posts that are inspirational or emotional.
It's a way to motivate oneself and perhaps share an experience with others.
Now the fifth and last reason why people share that we're going to cover is that they found whatever
they're sharing to be entertaining or funny it could be a funny Bad Lip Reading video or it can be a
great interview with a reverent artist.
The post makes people laugh cheer get nostalgic or stir some type of emotion that's generally something
that people want to share with others.
So there are a lot of reasons why people share content.
The question is can you create pieces that speak to those five reasons.
Consider the reactions you want to get from each piece you create.
And if you write them with those results in mind you should have a better chance at reaching those goals.
All right guys that is enough about engagement.
I'll see you in the next lecture.